I'm Wesley Morris and this is Cannonball
today. I can smell what The Rock is
cooking. Finally.
Now, if you were to do a Family Feud
style man on the street poll, like if
you just walked up to people and asked
them, "Name the biggest movie star of
the last 25 years." I bet you that was a
terrible Steve Harvey, by the way. I bet
you'd get enough people answering Dwayne
[music]
the Rock Johnson that your family
wouldn't get a strike if that was your
answer. In fact, I'd guess he'd wind up
being the number one answer.
And I'm going to set that the man who's
arguably our biggest active star has
also inarguably been the most misused.
He's usually a body first that makes
[music] everything else about him, his
humor,
>> smoldering intensity
>> and his charisma, his chill, all of
those things have to compete with what a
mountain range he is.
[groaning and screaming]
But this year, Johnson's body is once
again the centerpiece of a new movie.
It's called The [music] Smashing
Machine. And for once, it's what's going
on inside that body that's fascinating.
He plays the mixed martial arts fighter
Mark Kerr, a man built like the Pentagon
paid for him, but he plays Kerr in this
way that might get at the real humanity
and even tragedy of the actor playing
him.
>> Winning is the best feeling there is.
It's 40,000 people and they're cheering
you on.
>> There's no other high like it in the
world.
This all made me want to talk to my
friend Sam Anderson who wrote a really
revealing profile of Dwayne Johnson in a
recent New York Times magazine. Here's
my conversation with S.
>> Sam, welcome back to Cannonball.
>> Thank you. Glad to be back.
>> I guess I'm going to start by asking um
a pretty straightforward question.
>> You're one of my favorite writers of
profiles.
>> Thank you.
>> Bar none. You have written about Lori
Anderson, Rick Steves, Weird Al Yanovic,
>> Kevin Durant,
>> Kevin Durant, Russell Westbrook.
>> I'm curious,
what is drawing you to, of all people,
Dwayne Johnson? What made you say yes to
wanting to spend an afternoon with him?
>> Yeah, it actually was not my idea. My
brand is sort of finding uh quirky
outside the mainstream people I would
say in writing about them usually. I
think he's by far the most famous person
I've ever written about.
>> Sure. Yes.
>> So it was really it was my editor who
came to me Sasha and asked if I wanted
to write about Dwayne the Rock Johnson
and I thought well I don't know what
what's he what's he I mean sort of
course in a way of course and on the
other hand no not really. Um,
>> so talk to me about of course.
>> Of course. It would be fun to try to
articulate
someone who is that omnipresent in the
culture.
>> It'd be like trying to, I don't know,
write a poem about the sun or something.
Like, of course, you got to you got to
address the thing at the center of the
solar system.
>> I mean, we'll come back to this, but I
mean, I made a list of of all the stuff.
I mean, just what his the last 25 years
of his movie life have been like.
>> Oh my god.
>> I mean, how many pages?
>> This is what it looks like. Yeah,
>> this is this is what it looks like. It's
like some years there are four movies.
So go on.
>> So, you know, that's appealing, but it's
also a little bit of a turnoff cuz it's
just so obvious and everybody knows and
>> like he doesn't you don't need anything.
You don't ostensibly need anything from
him. Um, you might not have any
questions like looking at things
superficially.
>> Yeah.
>> Also, he's been written about so much.
He's done a couple cases. Well,
>> oh, beautifully. Uh,
>> Katie Weaver. Katie Weaver wrote a
brilliant and hilarious uh profile of
him.
>> Zach Baron did another one last year,
>> GQ. Yeah, that was great.
>> Both very good elite profile writing
pieces of The Rock.
>> So, yeah, it's it's ground that's been
well explored.
>> But what got me excited was his new
project. And I heard that he was doing
his first serious role.
>> I mean, thank you for putting that in
quotes.
>> Yeah. Right. But he was doing he was
doing a movie with Benny Safty. So one
of the Safy brothers who have made all
these fascinating projects.
>> Uncut Gems and
>> Good Time
>> Good Time with Robert Patson. Yeah.
>> And then The Curse, the TV show The
Curse with uh Nathan Fielder. Yes. Which
I loved. And so I just loved their whole
thing, this whole kind of intermingling,
this weird uncanny intermingling between
like reality and fiction. So in Uncut
Gems, you're like really in the Diamond
District and they're just shooting
street scenes and people are walking by
and it's like this kind of poorest
membrane.
>> Yes.
>> So you don't really know. I mean Kevin
Garnett and famously Nonco Gems is
playing Kevin Garnett.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right.
>> Yeah. And the curse revolves around this
kind of reality show. So they're filming
the filming of a reality show and I I I
like that aspect of it. And so I was
excited to see The Rock in that
environment and uh to talk to him about
that project. So that's why I said yes
and got excited. Also, I was curious to
be around a person who was that famous.
[laughter]
I never have. I never I mean Kevin
>> John McI didn't quite give you those
[laughter]
those chills.
>> Yeah.
>> Um so you go down to Georgia
>> uh where his ranch is.
>> Well, I mean it was a whole thing. It
was like months and months and months as
you can imagine
>> going back and forth trying to set up a
time to find him.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. It really felt like trying to set
up like an interview with Barack Obama
or something. It felt like that
magnitude and then they're like a few
days before, like three or four days
before like
>> he would love to host you. DJ, they call
him DJ.
>> DJ
>> DJ would love to host you on his farm in
Georgia.
He would love to introduce you to the
bull, the Brahma bull that he is raised
on his farm in Georgia.
>> I will pause for one second to just say
>> Yep.
>> He was called
>> Yeah.
>> in his early days in professional
wrestling. The Brahmole.
>> The Brahmole. Yeah. He's got a little
like tattoo. He had Yeah. A little logo
on his shorts. But anyway, yeah, the
Brahmole has a Brahmole.
>> And uh so that was the plan.
So,
you know, my I'm just curious. Uh you
and I had been talking about what this
experience was going to be like.
>> Yeah. You gave me kind of a crash course
because I I haven't been paying
attention to professional wrestling for
a while and you love it.
>> I do.
>> You love it.
>> So Wesley took me out for lunch and told
me for like three hours [laughter] about
why The Rock is so amazing and his whole
arc and it was like Yeah. I mean, I
think that he, you know, it's it's it's
worth saying that, you know,
professional wrestling wise, he came to
us in like the mid9s
>> as a kid, but it was instantly clear
that he had something that
very few
any of anybody who like communicates
with the public has.
BUT THE ROCK IS COOKING
>> which is a real clarity of thought.
>> Mhm.
>> In terms of how he is expressing
himself, but he arrives in professional
wrestling at this at this great moment
where there are all these other
charismatic
people too. Um they call it the attitude
era.
If you got enough manhood to accept my
challenge,
then your bottom line will read has been
compliments of the rock.
[cheering]
And you know, even for the Attitude Era,
which included Stone Cold Steve Austin,
Mick Foley, The Undertaker, Yeah.
>> Kane, Curtain,
>> this guy's an encyclopedia professional
wrestling.
>> And that's just the the the top tier.
Anyway, of all those people,
>> it's Dwayne Johnson, The Rock, who is
the most
>> he's the most charismatic person, and
he's the person who in the mix of those
other guys can start trouble. You are 3
seconds away and the rock means 3
seconds away from The Rock LAYING THE
SMACKDOWN ON YOUR CANDY ASS.
>> I mean, he became famous for his
eyebrow. They called it the people's
eyebrow at some point
>> to match his signature move, which was
the people's elbow.
>> It's the most ELECTRIFYING MOVE IN
SPORTS ENTERTAINMENT TODAY. OH, THE
PEOPLE'S ELBOW.
>> AND HE JUST WAS FUN. He just was fun.
And you could see the other, you can see
the other wrestlers when he's on the
mic. There are times when they have to
turn away.
They have to try to find a way to fake
their way through how funny this guy is
because sometimes you you kind of break
character cuz he's just so good at his
job.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, you look at this guy and you're
just like, when is Hollywood going to
call him?
>> Right. So he had such a force of
personality that almost single-handedly
he kind of expanded um you know the skit
portions of wrestling.
>> Yes.
>> Like the fighting is really secondary
after a while because he's so good on
the mic and so he'll do these long long
skits and set pieces and there's a scene
in the kitchen. It's from 1999.
>> Come on Rock, finish him off.
>> Mankind can't stand the heat. So get him
out of the kitchen or finish HIM OFF.
RIGHT HAND BY THE LINE.
>> He's fighting kind of in the bowels of
the arena in all these ridiculous places
including a kitchen with mankind. One of
his great adversaries.
And this is almost like an art
performance. Like it's like a piece of
mimming because he's getting beat up by
a bag of popcorn.
>> WHAT IS THAT?
POPCORN [laughter]
JUST BEING STREWN EVERYWHERE.
>> Thrashing around.
>> This man is just re like like the most
painful bag of popcorn ever hit him in
the head. I love that.
>> I love that.
>> Yeah. A bag of popcorn.
>> Oh my. It's a bag of popcorn.
>> I couldn't hurt you with a bag of
popcorn if I had like 10 hours.
[laughter]
That is kind of why professional
wrestling really works on me because
it's just the strangest job in the
world. Like you want to be an athlete,
but you also wanted to be in the school
play,
>> right? [laughter]
>> Do you know what I mean? Like it's just
such a fascinating collection of
priorities that converge in the sport,
>> right? But what I can't imagine in the
the time that you spent with him, what I
was thinking about was just how
strange it might be to [clears throat]
be in a space with this person alone.
>> Mhm.
>> At his request, right, to be invited
down to spend time
>> um not in a ring or backstage, but in
his living room.
>> Yeah. And it is strange. I don't know
how much you've been around sort of like
like people who are so famous it kind of
warps spaceime around them but I haven't
been that much. And there is that very
disorienting feeling of of seeing them
in person for the first time and being
like
>> your brain can't it can't connect these
two like hemispheres of like that is the
of reality
>> is the image guy that I've seen on
screens of every size for decades
>> and now he's a three-dimensional human
being who is riding toward me on like a
four-wheeler to open his gate at his
farm. arm so I can go talk to him and
he's just a guy,
>> right? Was he prepared for you to be
disoriented in some way?
>> Yeah, I think he must have been. Yeah,
you can kind of feel that, right? You
can feel I mean, this is how it must be
for him interacting with everyone on
Earth. He did tell me as we were feeding
the bull later, standing at the fence
and feeding uh his big giant beautiful,
beautiful, beautiful creature. This
bowl, I loved his bowl so much. His
[laughter] name His name is Soul Bully.
S O U L space Bully. I was like,
>> "What's the story behind that name?" And
he said something like, "I just got a
thing about souls."
>> He likes souls.
>> Of course, his father was called Soul
Man was one of his nicknames.
>> Yes. His father, Rocky Johnson, the
great professional wrestler,
>> pioneering black professional wrestler.
And as we fed the bowl, he was kind of
telling me the story of the farm and why
he has this bowl and how, you know, and
and you could tell he was saying it in a
way. He wasn't complaining. He was just
saying it as a fact. He's at a certain
point when he switched over into film
from professional wrestling, he became
so famous that he can't go out into the
world anymore.
>> Yeah.
>> He just he can't walk down the street.
He can't go to the grocery store.
>> Uh he's too distinctive.
>> I wouldn't miss it.
>> Yeah. With the super fame. Like you
imagine Brad Pit could
>> Brad Pitt could put a hat on or
something and sunglasses, get away with
it. The Dwayne the Rock Johnson can't.
>> So he's kind of created these worlds for
himself where he has, you know, on the
farm a pond he can fish in. He loves
fishing. and his bull who's his friend
who when he wakes up alone on the farm
because his family's somewhere else uh
and feels a little low, he told me he
just he remembers that he has this this
buddy out there in the field and he'll
go just pet the bull and feel better.
>> I have a weird question.
>> Yeah.
>> Like he's married.
>> He's a father.
>> Yes.
>> What? And I mean presumably he's got
friends.
>> So the the like are we talking about
loneliness or solitude?
Oh, that's a great question.
[clears throat]
Loneliness or solitude?
And what's the difference there?
Loneliness is involuntary. Solitude is
>> I think loneliness is a is an experience
that that's a side effect of of of
things you may or maybe can't control.
>> Solitude is is a is an experience you
seek out
>> and you you aim to create for yourself.
Um you you seek to experience it. I
don't think loneliness is a state that
you
>> that you pursue.
>> And I would say, you know, based on my
one day with Dwayne Johnson,
>> long day with Dwayne Johnson, um there's
both. There's both. I think part of what
makes him fascinating is he is, as
everyone knows, just one of the most
magnetic people you'll ever see, right?
>> Coming through a screen or sitting in a
room like we are right now. Like you
just feel that. You feel that charisma.
You see the smile. He's like really
connecting with you as a human being.
>> And yet he describes himself as kind of
shy. He's an only child. He grew up an
only child moving constantly because of
his dad's job as a wrestler. And so this
was a kid who was getting pulled out of
school in the middle of a year and
thrown into a new school and couldn't
really hold friendships. And so he is
kind of solitary, shy,
>> introspective,
>> very thoughtful, very thoughtful and at
the same time is incredibly magnetic and
you can drop him in a crowd and suddenly
you have 100 people who are best friends
with him. And I think both those things
are true at the same time.
>> But I guess what is it like to then
suddenly have all the crowds disappear?
And the the experience you have with him
is an experience that like a small
handful of people
>> are really only ever going to.
>> Yeah.
>> And so you're sitting there in this
living room [laughter]
>> and in your in your in your piece
there's this great moment where
>> he is you have you have mentioned the
the little bit that you know about
professional wrestling is the existence
of a wrestler named Razer Raone.
>> Yeah. I actually had not expected to be
alone with him.
>> Like I said [clears throat] it took
forever to arrange this interview. You
got the sense that there are just teams
of teams of teams that manage his teams.
And I get to the gate and I text his
assistants who've told me to text them
and they say, "Okay, he's going to come
open the gate [laughter] himself."
>> And he does.
>> You guys are going to do it. Yeah.
>> And then I never see another person. Um
it's just him at home.
>> Mh.
>> And so we are alone and uh it things get
really deep uh very quickly. And at a
certain point, I said, "Okay, let me
just tell you kind of my perspective,
what I hope to do, what I'm doing, the
way I approach things." I confessed, I'm
not a a fan of professional wrestling.
Last wrestler I remember really liking
was back in the 90s, this guy called
Razor Raone. He was like, "Razor Raone,
that was your guy?" I was like, "Yeah."
He's like, "Scott [laughter] Hall, great
guy." Uh, and uh, I said, "Oh,
you know what? I remember reading
because I read, you know, a pile of
stuff as usual. I remember reading you
you copied Razor Raone's punch, right?
You used to study that punch and copy
it. And I'm telling you, Dwayne the Rock
Johnson sitting on his couch. He's got
his feet up. He's barefoot. He's sipping
tequila. And he just lights up like a
little kid. He's so happy. He's like,
"Yes, yeah. Wow. Yes, I did study razor
removed punch." [laughter]
And then he starts telling me the story
of his punch when he started wrestling.
He had a really uh The Rock had a really
obviously fake punch. He starts telling
me the story and I've read this story in
a couple different places. I'm like,
"Yeah, yeah, yeah." And then I was just
like, "Sorry, I'm going to stop you. Can
you show me
>> the difference between a bad wrestling
punch and a good one?" And he was a
little surprised and he was like, "Show
you?" I was like, "Yeah." He's like,
"Look, right now?" I said, "Yeah."
[laughter]
And he just popped up. He just flew off
of that couch and was like, "All right,
difference between a good punch and a
bad punch." And I was like, "Oh, wow.
He's gonna do this." And so I stand up
just to kind of watch. And he is
instantly like in my face. He just goes
across the room and he's in my face and
he's showing me what it looks like when
you do when you and he showed me, you
know,
>> 10 different terrible wrestling punches.
>> There are some bad ones.
>> Oh yeah,
>> for sure.
>> So he does this punch. And he says,
"This is a classic bad wrestling punch
where he jumps in the air because what
you want to do is create the thump,
create the percussion as you're
punching." He jumps in the air and
thumps down as he's punching. So he's
like,
>> you know, and you've seen wrestlers do
that. And uh he said all the way to the
back of the arena, you see that's fake.
And then he says, "But Scott Hall, Razor
Raone, he wasn't like that at all." The
Rockies had traveled with a with a VHS
player with a VCR
>> and he would pop
>> on the road and he would pop in videos
of Razor Raone and watch frame by frame
to see what this guy was doing because
all you know as a viewer is it looks
really cool like it looks it looks
special somehow and it doesn't look fake
and he was like what goes into that
>> and he broke it down motion by motion
and the Razor Raone punch was this huge
like twist twisting motion with a couple
different. So, you start to whole body,
a lot of torque
>> and then there's like a slap across the
face and there's a and there's a there's
a slap that turns into a fist at the
last second and then your other hand is
hitting your thigh and that's what's
creating the percussion and no one in
the arena sees it. All they've seen you
do is some athletically twisting thing.
>> I have slowed this down my entire life
to try to catch
>> slap on the on the thigh. The point is
you were in there.
>> Yeah.
>> Getting a wrestling lesson
>> lesson
>> for one of the greatest wrestlers.
>> I wish I had a a video of that. I wish I
had said you can do that again. I want
to see video [laughter] of this. So that
was the first moment where it really
like we we connected over I think a
shared sense of curiosity
and appreciation of like real expertise.
I think though when you and I were
talking about having this experience
like before you had actually done it and
this question that you had circled
around was I'm going to just reduce it
to one word which is pain.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> And so I'm really interested in how he
thinks about the concept of pain and
what that means to him. Yeah,
>> when you know my literal brain when you
brought this up to me, Sam, I was just
like, "Oh, well, you must you must you
must be talking about what it might be
like to suffer in the ring
>> and to like get a get a ring injury."
>> Yeah.
>> That's not where you went. Like this
wound up going to somewhere really
surprising and personal that I think in
some ways is connected to this movie.
This
>> Yeah, for sure. Yeah. So, I I had seen
the new film and I had been kind of
marinating in
Wayne the Rock Johnson's career for
weeks and months leading up to this
encounter with him. And
the word that I really started to carry
around and think a lot about was was
pain. Was this concept of pain. I just
in watching his wrestling career, in
reading about his life story, in
watching his film career as an action
star, and then this new movie, The
Smashing Machine, it hit me at some
point like this guy, one way to think
about this guy's career is he is really
an artist of pain
>> in many forms.
>> Mhm.
>> That's kind of his medium.
>> Inflicting it, receiving it,
>> receiving it, inflicting it. Yeah.
performing it in various ways. You know,
he was a football player before he
became a wrestler and and famously had a
horrible shoulder injury that ruined his
what what should have been probably a
star football career and an NFL career.
So, this is a guy who had suffered pain
on every level possible, I thought. And
so yeah, at some point it just
everything kind of crystallized for me
in this question that I started asking
everyone I know before I went out to do
the interview, which is just what is the
worst pain you've ever felt?
And I would ask friends, family,
neighbors, colleagues, everybody. I
asked you.
>> You did.
>> I can tell you your answer.
>> What was my answer?
You have a horrible allergy to um
broccoli and all that kind of stuff.
That's a great answer. And it feels
[laughter] like you've eaten glass.
>> Yeah, broccoli rob.
>> Yeah, broccoli. Yeah,
>> broccoli rob. Quinoa. Yeah, quinoa.
That's that is definitely my answer.
>> Pretty sure I told Dwayne Johnson about
that, by the way. I told him about a lot
of different people's pain cuz he was
interested. He was fascinated by this
question. So, all along I had planned to
kind of spring this question on him. And
um after we settled back down after the
Razor Raone thing, which we really kind
of bonded over, I think he enjoyed being
able to to get into that level of
detail. And I gave him my little spiel
and I said, "So, I've been asking
everybody and I want to ask you, what's
the worst pain you've ever felt?" And I
knew, you know, 50 different answers he
could have gone with because I had seen
him in the ring take some serious hits
and get really I mean he his torn
muscles, his Achilles, he's suffered a
lot.
>> And most people when I asked that
question tell me about some physical
injury.
>> Uh but that's not where he went. Yeah.
He he he
sat with it for a while and then he just
launched into this story about his dad,
about being a kid and getting really
rejected by his dad.
>> Rocky
Johnson
>> uh who he had a very
>> complicated is the word that he likes to
use relationship with.
>> I would say oporadic.
>> Oh yeah. I mean high
>> I mean high human mellow drama.
>> Oh yeah. Unbelievable. Unbelievable. His
dad was an incredible character.
>> I mean like famously but then you know
to be the child of someone who's a who's
famously a character
>> is a different story.
>> Yeah. For sure. Yep. So he told me this
whole story about his dad and his mom
and they're moving around the country
and these kind of traumas that he went
through at a really formative moment in
his life. And that sort of set the tone
for our whole day together. We ended up
spending I mean it's funny you know they
sent me this itinerary with everything
scheduled down to the half hour and the
moment we sat down and started talking
that just went out the window and he was
just he was just in [laughter] it. He
was just just talking.
>> Right. And I tried to give him outs many
times. I was like, you know, we would
after four hours or something. We had
just finished feeding the bull. And I
was like, "Look, I'm guessing that 90%
of your team's job is keeping you from
spending all day with the person in
front of you because he gets so deep
into it with people." And he's like,
"Yeah, yeah, let's go to dinner." So, we
went to dinner [laughter] and ended up
being talking for eight eight and a half
hours, something like that. Well, I'm
curious, you know, because, you know, I
think one of the things we talked about
was
the reason that you were a perfect
person to to write about a person like
this is that
your interests are just they're from
some other place, right? Like you
actually do want to get to understand
this person.
>> [clears throat]
>> And I
read a profile like the one you wrote
and I then understand
[sighs] I feel like I understand why you
know my theory about him or my feeling
about him is that the movies have never
really understood what they have.
>> Yeah. What I wanted to ask you what what
what have you always felt like was
missing? What what would the movies not
let him do?
>> Not have to hurt people.
>> Not have to save the world. Mhm.
>> But I mean, I think that the reason it's
taken so long for him to do another
thing like the smashing machine is that
>> I don't know. I mean, I read what you
experienced and and captured and thought
I don't think he thought he could have
done a movie like this. I guess a thing
to also think about as we talk about him
is
it's along the lines of what you are
identifying as being this, you know,
Josh and Benny Safty filmmaking priority
of this permeability between artifice
and and reality.
>> Sure. I think a lot of the times when
smart writers go out to spend time with
someone, they're going to then go spend
more time writing about the experience
of of being with.
There is this question of
what just happened? [laughter]
>> Yeah. Like did I spend time with a
version of a person that the other
people in his in his immediate life know
him to be?
>> Mhm. How much was he performing in his
conversation with me?
>> Well, I mean, I will apply a cynical
layer here.
>> Like excusing like who this person
actually is to just say like it's the
end of the year. This is the time when
you know these studios start making all
kinds of fascinating, talented,
important, famous people available
because there's some milestone
professionally happening for them.
>> And that milestone could culminate in
getting to go to the Academy Awards in
February.
>> Sure. And the question is, you know, how
much
of the time
that this person is allowing you to
spend with him, how much of that time
should be visible through the lens of a
campaign for something? And did you
question [laughter]
whether like what whether you got
jobbed?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's funny. I
that was always in the back of my mind
like is is he being real or um like are
are we hitting it off? Are we having an
honest conversation
or is this all just uh a really great
promotional performance?
>> Um
and
I I mean in the end I don't know. I
don't know. I did flip that around too.
It's like well I'm coming to his house.
I'm asking very personal questions. I'm
sharing things about myself. And you
know,
>> I'm coming in there and doing that also
because it's part of my job, right? I'm
not going in just for an afternoon. I'm
going in because I'm going to write a
big profile and I'm going to look cool
cuz I hung out with The Rock and I got
through to him and connected with him,
right? And he's doing it to promote his
new movie. And if he looks deep and
pained and emotional, that's good for
the promotion cycle of this movie where
he plays a man who's in pain and deep
and emotional. So, we're both within
this container, right? We're having that
this human interaction within that
container that's very artificial.
At a certain point, it is just me and
him sitting in that room at the same
time.
>> Right. Right.
>> And something human happens within that
container that to me is real. I mean, I
what I came away thinking was we spent
all this time together. I wake up the
next morning to a voice memo on my phone
that he's texted me. He's texting me
pictures that he was secretly taking of
me and the bull and a video. Uh the
video, which was really adorable because
he's taking video of me like really
bonding with his bull and feeding it and
talking, murmuring to the bull about how
beautiful it is. And then I turn and
look at him. I like this is such a great
creature. And essentially he's like like
I caught him taking a video of me and
the phone drops like he's like he got
caught. Yeah, it was really cute.
>> All right, that's
>> I mean there's stuff like that. And then
so I wake up to this voice memo that's
just really sincere
um emotional
uh thankful for our time together,
picking up on ideas that we talked
about, asking me further questions. And
there are weeks of this him sending me,
you know, us going back and forth. And
what I thought in the end was like I
understand the cynical view of it all,
but if he is faking
>> like he could have stopped so long ago
>> and had the effect that he wanted. He he
did on you.
>> He did great. He could have stopped with
me so long ago.
>> If he's faking, then he is like a
manipulative emotional ninja. Yeah. He's
like Andy. He's doing some conceptual
art stuff right now because it's so
deep. [laughter]
So, I don't know. Yeah, it's like the
safty question like what's real and
what's artificial? Like what in what
ways, you know, like you and I are am I
here because it's my job and I want to
look cool because I'm on uh your podcast
or am I here because I love Wesley
Morris?
>> I I hope it's the latter, but I'll
>> That's a bad example. I'm only here
because I
>> But
>> love Wesley Morris, but you know what's
real?
>> Yes. I okay I feel like it might be
useful
>> to just spend a little bit of time
thinking about some I don't know
inspired uses of him like or just like
time that we've spent with this man
doing his job that we've enjoyed that in
indications of like what it is that is
lovable about him period. So, I've got a
couple. You've got a couple.
>> Favorite Dwayne Johnson moments.
>> You go first.
>> Okay. I've never I'm I'm the kind of
like intellectual and dork and snob
who's never watched the Fast and Furious
movies. Any of them. Never seen any of
them.
>> Yeah. You're still in my life.
>> I know. Have you seen them all?
>> I still have this rel Yes, I've seen
them all. I've seen them all.
>> Okay.
>> I mean, yes.
>> I haven't seen any several times. So I
but I had to because I was researching
[laughter] this piece and I was excited
to I was actually excited to I've always
meant to sit down and do like a marathon
and watch all of them. But I started
with fast five
>> banger
>> because that's the one that features
Dwayne the Rock Johnson
>> for the first time.
>> For the first time down in Brazil as
this sort of like uh
super tough but also by the book kind of
like a a ja that's more my reference
like a
>> that's a great comparing it to lay
miseraba.
>> Yeah miserab he's he's the cop who who
believes in justice. He's just there to
get his guy. He doesn't care what your
excuses are. He doesn't care the the
righteousness of your larger cause.
You're on his list and he's going to get
you.
>> Yeah. Check mark.
>> And I found him really charismatic and I
really enjoyed the film.
>> Yeah. So, here we go. I don't even know
what scene this is, but we'll [laughter]
>> Let's just have fun watching it.
>> Okay. So, this is at the end of the
movie.
>> So, this is Vin Diesel and Dwayne
Johnson.
>> Yeah.
setting up what is going to be the sixth
Fast and Furious movie.
>> The music is always so ominous and
ridiculous.
[laughter]
>> Yeah, he didn't even look.
>> He just He just shoots
>> the guy. Didn't even look at him.
>> It's a hell of a mess.
>> Yeah, it is.
>> You know, I can't let you two go.
>> I ain't made that way.
>> Such good dialogue. I ain't made that
way. the way I see it, you burn yourself
24 hours.
>> And [laughter]
they end up, you know, facing each
other, the sort of the Jean Valjon Ja
standoff. And uh they kind of they kind
of come to terms and and uh Dwayne
Johnson's character sort of cracks and
and says, "I'm going to give you a
24-hour head start."
>> I wonder who he who he's doing here, cuz
it's not him.
>> No. No. That's what's so striking is
it's not just Dwayne Johnson being
Dwayne Johnson. It's It's somebody else.
It's like some other wrestler or
something. I can't quite put my finger
on it.
>> No, he's acting.
>> I will find you.
>> Anyway, uh
>> what's yours?
>> All right, I'm just going to say the
obvious thing for
>> Moana.
>> How did you know?
>> Cuz I love it so much.
>> You know, let's just let's just see the
You're welcome scene, which is basically
him showing up in the world of Moana for
the first time. Moana the character. So,
what I believe you were trying to say is
thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> You're welcome. [laughter]
>> Look, I love his rubber ducky like face
here.
>> You're face to face with greatness. And
it's strange.
>> He can't sing, but he can carry a tune.
And it's very it's very sweet. [music]
>> Open your eyes. Let's begin. Yes. It's
really me. It's Maui. Breathe [music] it
in.
>> I mean, and also he moves the way you
think Dwayne Johnson actually would if
this were a liveaction version of this
movie,
>> which he's now making.
>> Oh, no. [laughter]
>> I'm sorry.
>> Is that happening?
>> I'm sorry to break the news here. Yeah.
I'm so sorry, Sam.
>> I'm so sorry.
>> I couldn't stop it.
>> What the Call him right now. Tell him
no.
>> It'll probably be great.
>> Oh god. I think of him in his films as
almost like a human cartoon, you know,
like in that he's he's doing something
in all these films where he's not quite
real, nothing can hurt him.
>> Uh he can he can jump through a glass
window, he's fine. He can get his big
toes shot off and then so to see him as
an actual cartoon, I don't know. There's
something [laughter] like that doubles
the energy of it or something, you know?
Um I don't know. I love everything about
him in Moana. What about you?
>> Oh, I think it is a perfect use of
Dwayne Johnson. Yeah, it's funny now
that uh Dwayne and I are best friends.
When I watch
>> and you need to call your best friend
and stop him from making live action
Moana,
>> when I watch Moana the cartoon, I think
I see more what a performance that is.
>> I think I went in, you know, having read
like we talked about Katie Weaver's
great profile. Um he does come off as
very cartoonish. He's very funny. He's
very uh he has this unstoppable energy
when we were together and maybe again
this was a performance too, but um I
really did get a sense of him like our
energy kind of matched and I'm I'm
pretty low energy and sleepy and
introverted and and shy and quiet and he
was like that too. And so when I see him
doing this like yeah that's an aspect of
his personality but he's also this other
way. Mhm. Um,
>> I think it's exciting to to to think
about him and Moana and to to like just
sit with all of the stuff that I think
it is possible that he can do. It is why
I am mad at the movies for even asking
him to do all of the things that have
aligned him with the jungle, for
instance.
>> I mean, Jungle Cruise, those two Jumanji
movies with Kevin Hart.
OH MY GOD. YOU BETTER GET IN THERE AND
GO SAVE HER.
>> I'm not getting in there. You get in
there.
>> I'm not going anywhere. I got a backpack
on. You don't get a water with a
backpack. Everybody knows that.
>> Like it just it's too much. The the the
skyscraper movie that he did.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, I'm sorry. They It just brought
him too close to King Kong for me by the
end of that movie.
[music] And the posters were also
strange. And then there was um Oh my
god. What's the What's the movie that
actually had Rampage?
>> Rampage is him with an actual beast of
the jungle, a giant gorilla.
>> Are you familiar with genetic editing?
Changes will be incredibly
unpredictable.
>> It's just too much.
>> It's just too much. I'd like
I watch Moana and I see him
exploring something that is really like
in his bloodline as a Samoan man like
spending time with these Polynesian in
this Polynesian culture.
I I don't know. I just feel like less of
the
we can't think of anything better to do
with this giant man scenarios.
Yeah, he is a human being.
>> I And I think that the the humanness of
the comedy here is is as wonderful to me
as the tragedy of Mark Cerr in The
Smashing Machine is kind of kind of
deep. And um actually I I should
probably ask you how you felt about The
Smashing Machine, which is the movie
that he's currently in, Dwayne Johnson.
Well, have you ever heard of the
Ultimate Fighting Championship, the UFC?
>> That's the bloody thing they're trying
to ban
>> right now.
>> And I think it's very good, but I think
he's very good in the movie. And it's
basically the story of it's based on the
real story of a gentleman named Mark
Kerr wrestled in mixed martial arts at,
you know, before it was the the UFC that
we currently know. It's 40,000 people
and they're cheering you on.
>> There's no other high like it in the
world.
>> And this guy is a very very very very
un inconceivably gentle human being in
this hulking enormous body. Is the word
is your description I'm I'm just going
to look. Is it is it
>> what is their description of the body?
By the way, Wesley, when when Wesley
reads uh an article that you've written,
he scribbles all over it and draws giant
hearts. There's a big He's writing with
a green pen. [laughter] He scribbled all
these little comments and uh there's a
giant heart.
>> Um
>> it's very satisfying to look at.
>> I'm not going to find it, but I know I
underlined it. But basically, you
describe at some point that he's got
these cantaloupe. It's like his whole
body is like a bag of cantaloupes or
something like that. sentient pile of
cantaloupes. There we go.
>> Yeah, Mark Kerr was just like he was had
a legendary physique
>> in addition to his legendary personality
which was as you say just incredibly
gentle
>> and was you know I hate this phrase but
I mean the way they talk about him they
called him the smashing machine but
really he was a gentle giant.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> you know what phrase popped into my mind
as I was watching the movie? Meaty
sweetie. [laughter]
Sasha wouldn't let me put that in the
piece.
>> Yeah. Gentle giant.
>> Uh meaty sweetie. So, um this meaty
sweetie's got a little lot of turmoil,
you know, at home in his in his head.
>> Yep.
>> It's like a why me?
>> Um sort of existential. It's not a
crisis, but it's an understanding of
this tension between what he looks like
and how he feels. M.
>> And I love that about this movie, which
is this is a person trying to figure out
how to just let Why won't people let him
be the person he feels he is?
>> Mhm.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And yet he's got to live and this is the
way this is this is the way he has come
to understand is is how he's going to
make his living.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Um, and I don't know, did
the movie work for you?
>> I like the movie. I u I've seen it
multiple times and it gets more
interesting every time. I think it
really does a lot of what I like about
the Say's work, which is that kind of
braiding together reality and unreality
in a way that's kind of uncanny.
>> And probably the best example of that is
just the way they treat Dwayne Johnson's
face.
>> Yes. which is
>> we even Yes. He's heavily
>> probably a top five most famous face in
the world.
>> Sure.
>> Top 10.
>> We just talked about how he can't leave
his house because
>> can't leave his house. He's got like
magnetic smile.
>> And in this film they have used all
these prosthetics, all this makeup to
make him look
>> not exactly like Mark Kerr, but like
some guy at a midpoint between this most
famous face
>> Yeah. on planet Earth and this MMA
fighter from the '9s who you've probably
never heard of. And so your first
reaction as a viewer is like, what am I
looking at? [laughter] Like where am I?
And that sort of that uncanny feeling is
there the whole movie? Uh and Benny Safy
Benny Safy told me that was on purpose.
They said he said the makeup artist
absolutely could have made him look
exactly like Mark Kerr, but they wanted
that kind of uncanny valley feeling.
Mhm.
>> of you see the super famous face shining
through. You see Dwayne the Rock Johnson
experiencing this turmoil
struggling with his addiction to
opiates, fighting with his girlfriend,
uh, losing fights. So, yeah, I I found
it fascinating.
>> I'm calling because I know Dr. Rob was
going to write that prescription for um
for Voltateran for me.
Yeah, but Voltateran as a pill that's a
little hard on my tummy.
>> I mean, he changed his he has this this
kind of high voice, this high gentle
voice.
>> So, what I was hoping is is if Dr. Rob
can [music] write a prescription that's
that's a little better than Volteran.
Um, that's uh that's a little stronger
too as well.
>> It's kind of gentle, high voice. I think
I describe it in the piece as like his
voice is like a a pair of hands cupping
a baby bird, you know? He's like trying
not to hurt. [laughter] He's trying to
protect and not hurt everyone around
him, even though he looks like the
Incredible Hulk. And
>> he looks like two Incredible Hulks.
>> He does. And so, he's really doing an
impression. But within that performance,
he's also going pretty deep and painful
emotional places. I mean, he I think he
breaks down I think he breaks down twice
in the movie crying.
>> Yeah. Yeah. In a in a different movie,
there would have been these other
moments where he either explodes in a
rage or breaks down in tears. Yeah.
>> But in this movie, it happens
almost emotionally, arythmically.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There's this
incredible moment. There's kind of one
of the big explosive fights at home
where out of nowhere he just he he
breaks a door in half. And uh the moment
that stuck with me after I watched it
was
>> that is an that is a wild moment.
>> Oh yeah.
>> The ease with which that door just it's
like it's it's like a cracker.
>> Yeah. Yeah. [laughter] Yeah. Yeah. He
snaps a graham cracker in half, but it's
a door. And
before he breaks the door, he sets his
plate down so delicately on the counter.
Breaks the door, smashes it up, and then
picks the plate back up so delicately
and brings it into the kitchen. And uh
yeah, it's a really subtle performance
in a lot of ways.
>> I think it really works as a kind of
psycho drama for Dwayne Johnson. And
what I enjoyed was
being destabilized by the by the person
at the center of the movie,
>> right?
>> And you know, there's two sets of
baggage that you bring when you go. One
is that you know you're seeing Dwayne
Johnson in a movie. The second is you're
seeing Dwayne Johnson starring in
something that I think he's really
struggled with how to indulge these last
25 years, which is making a movie about
a person who gets in a ring to to do his
job,
>> right? I got to speak with Mark Kerr,
>> uh the real guy, and he is exactly as
depicted in the film and just a real
sweetie. He told me he has come to
realize over the years that his secret
power
is his ability to be emotional.
>> And he he gave a really beautiful kind
of monologue about the toxicity of
fighting culture, sports culture,
masculine culture, and how much of life
you're missing out on if you're not
emotionally connecting with people for
real
>> in an authentic way.
>> That is fascinating to me. Um because I
feel like so much of Dwayne Johnson is
is really, you know, he can smell what
Mark Kerr is cooking.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> As an actor.
>> He told me at the Venice Film Festival,
the first time he had seen the film
surrounded by a bunch of strangers who
had never seen it, he was sitting
between Dwayne Johnson and Benny Safty
who wrote and directed the movie. And
there are all these really wrenching
difficult scenes, you know, where he's
breaking down crying and where he and
his girlfriend are having a huge fight.
And he said it just brought back, it was
so real to him. It brought back all the
emotions of those moments. And he found
himself really struggling emotionally.
and
Dwayne would reach over and just kind of
rub his back or squeeze his knee
>> and Benny would reach over and and
there's kind of a big climactic um fight
scene with his girlfriend,
eight minutes long, and he was really
struggling and Benny reached over and
held his hand and he said they held
hands for half an hour for the whole
rest of the movie. And uh
I think that that's kind of the vibe of
the movie. [laughter]
These big needy guys who love each other
and help each other
>> and need help, right?
>> And acknowledge each other's emotions.
>> Yeah.
>> And their own emotions.
>> I mean, I don't know. I think the thing
I think I think that's right. I also
think that like what I'm coming back to
is just what professional wrestling
really is.
which is
you know these very tough people
performing vulnerability.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. Yeah.
>> Performing
the acceptance that somebody has to
lose.
>> Theater of pain.
>> Yeah.
>> Yep.
>> And I don't know. I just feel like
Dwayne Johnson is an exemplar of of the
theater.
>> Agree.
>> Uh Sam Anderson, thank you for doing
this. Welcome. Thank you for having me.
Wesley and I were holding hands under
the table through the whole podcast.
[laughter]
[music]